The bean lifecycle is a more advanced topic,
but it is worth showing to you even in a fundamentals course.
It starts off with instantiation and then it moves onto populate properties.
These are read from either a properties file or
injected in from other resources.
Then the framework sets the bean name and makes it aware to other resources.
We can then set that as a BeanFactoryAware context.
Next, we do pre initialization utilizing BeanPostProcessors.
From here, we can initialize the bean utilizing properties that were just set.
Now we can call an init method,
and this is actually the piece that we're going to demonstrate
that's very useful even in this fundamentals course,
and then you wrap up that entire initialization process
with another set of BeanPostProcessors.
We're going to look at a more common use and that is the
configuration of an init method on a bean,
and let's do that demo now.
Adding an init method is actually quite easy to do in our application.
I've gone ahead and opened up our conference-java app.
I'm going to navigate to our pom.xml.
We need to add a dependency inside of here because Java EE has now
assumed an annotation for post construct API calls.
So I've added this javax.annotation javax.annotation -api version 1.3 .2.
That was the most current version at the time of recording this course,
dependency inside the dependency section of our pom.xml.
I'm going to save this.
When I do,
it will automatically import those dependencies inside of our application.
You can check that by looking in your external libraries
and see if it's pulled that in there,
and you can see we have our javax.annotation library that
it's pulled in as a dependency there.
I'm going to navigate down to my service and
specifically the SpeakerServiceImpl.
And you can do this in any bean that is configured by Spring.
I want to navigate below the constructors that we have implemented in here.
We have a no arguments constructor and a constructor
that took a SpeakerRepository in.
The beauty of this is it doesn't matter which constructor we're calling.
It's still going to be called after those have ran.
So I want to add in a private void method.
I'm going to call mine initialize and no arguments in there.
I'm going to add a System.out .println in here that I'm
just going to dump out a statement that says that were
called after the constructors.
Put a semicolon on the end, and now the last thing that makes the magic happen.
We're going to put in a @PostConstruct annotation, and that's it.
So created a private void method, no arguments,
tagged that with a @PostConstruct annotation,
added that library inside of our dependencies,
and now I can run our application.
When this runs,
you'll see that it called the SpeakerServiceImpl no args constructor,
and then it's called that method where we're called after the
constructors and before anything else is ran.
So if you remember from our application,
we have this debug statement that's dumping out for each one of these
services just showing that they were singletons from the previous
example and then the name that we're calling.
You can see how we can hook that in there.
And the nice thing about this is we can have just a simple post
construct method that gets called for any type of logging or
configuration things that you want to put in there.
Now one thing I would caution here is I personally would not put things
like obtaining connections to a database in here.
I see people want to go through and add things inside of
here that I don't believe fit here.
Closing and opening connections,
they should be handled by Spring not by you programmatically in
this post construct or a pre-destroy annotation.
That's another one that's available.
You get the idea of these being aware annotations in your code.
They should be used for configuration things that you just
want to run after all of your constructors.
Don't be opening and closing connections. Just a word of caution.